India: Hindi Daily Views China's Motives Behind Standoff With US Over Spy Plane

    Instead of being solved, the case between the United States and China is 
getting more and more entangled.   The hope for the release of 24 crew members 
of the US military reconnaissance plane held captive at China's Hainan Island 
for last 10 days is dwindling fast even in the near future.   China asserted 
that it will not release the crew unless the United States apologizes.   
Although the United States has regretted the death of the Chinese pilot, it is 
not prepared to apologize to China for this incident.   US Secretary of State 
Colin Powell is firm saying that a question does not arise for seeking an 
apology from the United States.   China has also refused to allow a US 
delegation to have unfettered meeting with the crew members twice a day as 
requested by the Bush administration.   Thus far the US diplomats have been 
allowed to meet the members only three times for just a few hours only.   This 
has even provoked the United States to use the language of threats.   It is, 
however, a different matter that both the countries do not want their mutual 
relations to become strained because of this event and each of them wishes an 
early end of the dispute.   Diplomatic efforts are also underway but any 
progress is hardly visible.   In fact, the Chinese designs aim at a different 
end.   Under the facade of this incident, it wants to get some concessions from 
the United States.   It wants the United States not to adopt a tough attitude 
toward human rights issues.    Also, linking the release of the US plane crew 
members with that of Taiwan, China wants to derive political mileage out of it.  
It is to be seen as to how far China succeeds in its attempt.
